It's good to know you're saved, and it's a blessing to know that one day you're going
to have a home in heaven.
Boy, what a joy that is.
So it's good to have a good group back here tonight.
We had a great day yesterday just being in the house of God, one with the other and fellowshipping
together around the Word of God, and we just enjoyed the day immensely yesterday, and it
was a blessing to spend time with God's people.
You know, when we're away from our home church, it's such a joy for us to be able to come
in churches like this and just feel like we're at home.
You know, you folks are precious to us.
This is a church of life, faith, walk, order, doctrine, and discipline, and so we have fellowship
one with the other because of what Jesus Christ has done for us on the cross of Calvary.
Amen?
It's all about Jesus.
It's not about us.
It's all about Him, and so we can thank God for that.
Psalm 139, turn there, and just stop my message while I probably use one of these verses,
but the 139th Psalm, if you turn there in your Bible tonight, please, I just want to
start there, and this psalm, of course, prompted me just a little bit to consider this.
I was actually going to preach through this, I thought, maybe this week, but the Lord has
not given me permission to do that, but I do want to share something with you out of
the 139th Psalm, and of course, this is a Davidic psalm.
It's one of the great psalms in the book of Psalms, and I have preached through this many
a time, and generally, I start a revival meeting off with going through this psalm very quickly,
but I want you to look at Psalm 139 with me, just beginning in verse 1.
I'm going to read a few verses, and then we're going to get into our message tonight, but
it just, I was prompted to think about this, but David here, inspired by the Holy Spirit
of God, says this.
He said, O Lord, Thou hast searched me and known me.
Thou hast searched me and known me.
Thou knowest my down-sitting and mine uprising.
Look at this.
Thou understandest my thought afar off.
Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways.
I want you to stop and think about that for a minute.
God is acquainted with all my ways.
He knows everything about me.
He's acquainted with all my ways.
No matter what I do, no matter where I go, no matter what I'm involved in, engaged in,
God knows everything about me.
Amen?
Now, someone said recently, you really can't know everything about everybody.
You can't know everything there is about a person.
You think you do.
Even after you've been married for a long period of time, they say you don't even really
know everything about your spouse.
Well, I'm not sure that's true, but I'm certain that there probably are some things that we
don't know about one another.
Might be some secrets that we've kept or some things that we've not shared because it wouldn't
do any good to share those things.
I have no idea sometimes how you would approach that kind of a statement, but God knows.
He knows everything about me.
In fact, one time I came home from work when I was still working in the Worker's Day world
as a bivocational pastor for several years.
I worked a job, and when I first went into evangelism, I worked for a while.
I had a situation at work that was very troubling to me.
My routine was I'd come home, and I'd get a shower, and we'd sit down and eat, and I'd
ask my wife, we don't want to talk about anything until I've been home for at least an hour.
I came home one night so troubled that I just went into the bedroom and shut the door and
threw myself face down on the bed.
I said, God, I can't do anything about this.
God, you can see how overloaded I am tonight, and Lord, nobody knows me like you know me,
and I need your help.
In fact, I actually said to the Lord, listen, this is not my problem, it's your problem
because I can't do anything about this.
I mean, it was one of those situations where I had no control over what was going on at
all.
I said, God, you're acquainted with all my ways.
You know everything there is to know about me, and you know exactly what it is that I'm
dealing with here.
At verse 4, he says, for there is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest
it altogether.
Verse 5 says, thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me.
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me, it is too high, I cannot attain unto it.
Well, whither shall I go from thy spirit?
Or whither shall I flee from thy presence?
I'm going to be preaching on that topic tonight.
If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there.
If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there.
If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there
shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.
If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me,
yea, the darkness hideth not from thee, but the night shineth as the day, the darkness
as the light are both alike to thee.
For thou hast possessed my reins, thou hast covered me in my mother's womb.
Well, I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made.
Precious are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well.
My substance was not hid from thee.
When I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth, thine eyes
did see my substance yet being unperfect, and in thy book all my members were written,
which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them.
Verse 17 says, How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God!
How great is the sum of them!
If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand.
When I awake, I am still with thee.
Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God!
Depart from me therefore, ye bloody men!
For they speak against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take thy name in vain.
Do not I hate them, O Lord, that hate thee?
And am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee?
I hate them with a perfect hatred.
I count them mine enemies.
But then there's a transition in verse 23.
He said, Now, Lord, search me.
Search me, O God, and know my heart.
Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the
way everlasting.
He said, Listen, I see all the problems with men, the men that are around me, all the evil
deeds they do, all those that hate me, all those that are in adversity against me.
But he said, Really, what it boils down to is this, but what about me?
He said, Search me, O God, and know my heart.
Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me.
So he's saying, Listen, Lord, I'm relinquishing full control over to you, and I'm giving you
permission to deal with my heart.
I surrender myself completely to you, and I literally am giving you permission to deal
with me in a way which will point out to me and reveal what's really going on in my heart.
And God, if there's anything there that's wicked, I want to know it.
If it's something that I've missed that I've not confessed or repented of nor forsaken,
O God, I want to know it.
I want it to be revealed, O Lord.
Please do that for me.
Well, what an honest statement of Scripture this is.
What an honest man David was.
See, many times, most men will never allow God the latitude, this kind of latitude, as
they fear what will be revealed.
Some people just don't want to know, amen?
Sometimes get into a preaching meeting, and the Holy Spirit of God convicts you.
Well, then what are you going to do?
Are you going to tell God, No?
I don't want to get right with you.
I don't want to have my heart straightened out.
Don't want my life back on track the way it ought to be.
Some people just stiff-arm God.
Well, they don't want to know.
They're just satisfied with where they're at.
They're kind of in their comfort zone.
And so as I read this and as I listen to this precious song that was sung, and it really
touched my heart.
So I want God to search me.
I want God to know my heart.
I want Him to try me.
I want Him to know my thoughts.
And if there's anything there that I need to see that I'm missing, I want God to reveal
that to me.
God's always faithful to do that, amen?
Always faithful.
All right.
Let's take Psalm 139, verse 7, would you stand with me, please?
I respect and reverence the reading of God's infallible and spirit-inspired, inerrant Word
of God.
We are going to look at this one verse, verse 7 in Psalm 139, then we're going to get over
to the book of Jonah, but Psalm 139, verse 7, the Bible says this, David speaking here
is inspired by the spirit of God, says, Whither shall I go from thy spirit?
Or whither shall I flee from thy presence?
Indeed.
You can't hide from God.
He knows where you're at.
He knows what you're doing.
You can never flee from His presence.
Too many people running from God today.
Running in all sorts of directions and running in outside the will of God, and we're going
to take a look at that tonight just a little bit as we get into the message of Lord's impressed
upon my heart for this evening.
Father, we thank You, God, tonight for already speaking to our hearts through song.
We thank You, Lord, for the congregational singing.
I thank You, God, tonight that the Holy Spirit has already touched my heart tonight, and
I'm thankful for that.
And I pray that, Lord, tonight as we look into Your Word, that You'd speak to us afresh
and move in our midst tonight.
Lord, please help me to rightly divide the Word of truth tonight, to share what's on
my heart tonight.
I pray, God, that You would fall fresh upon us tonight and breathe fresh upon us tonight.
We want to leave this place differently than the way we came in.
So God, I pray You'd do business with us tonight.
I pray, God, You'd convict us where we need to be convicted.
And Lord, we just don't want to be stirred, God, but we want to be changed, want to be
different, Lord.
So speak to us through Thy Word.
Thy Word is truth.
and it liveth and it abideth forever.
We'll thank you now for it in Jesus' precious
and holy and wonderful name, amen.
Thank you, may you be seated.
Turn with me to the book of Jonah, the book of Jonah.
It's a little book, just four chapters,
and usually when I preach through Jonah,
I go through the entire book,
and I may even do that tonight,
but there's just something practical
I wanna get out of the book of Jonah tonight
as we spend some time in this precious book.
I wonder, many times when I get into a revival meeting
or maybe just preaching of a home church,
I look around at my congregation,
and I wonder, how many people are running from God?
How many people that I'm preaching to
are out of the will of God, amen?
Now, stop and think about that for a minute.
Now, you say, now, Brother Mashon,
I heard you talk about that last night just a little bit
when we were dealing with the evening message,
and I talked about this thing of running from God.
I wanna tell you something right now.
Personally, in my own personal life,
one of the things that I fear more than anything else
is getting out of the will of the Lord.
Getting out of the will of God's a miserable thing.
Now, if you're here tonight and you look at your own life,
you could probably say, you know what, preacher,
if you've been saved in any period of time,
there's been some times in my life
when I've been out of the will of God.
And it's an amazing thing how people,
sometimes they realize, they know,
and they understand they're out of the will of God,
but they don't wanna do anything about it.
They're just happy where they're at.
I don't ever wanna get out of the will of God.
Amen.
A lot of people just flat out disobedient.
I've said this, I don't know how many times,
I don't know how many missions conferences
I've preached over the years,
but it's interesting, in missions conferences,
if especially in a large church,
in missions conferences many times,
I'm almost always pretty sure
there's somebody in that congregation
that God's worked in their hearts
about going to the mission field,
and they've said no to the Lord.
Or perhaps there's somebody there
that God's been working on their heart
and calling in to preach,
and yet they refuse to yield themselves to the ministry.
Or maybe there's some sin in their life,
as I mentioned last night,
that they refuse to get right with God
and they just run as hard and as fast as they can
away from the convicting power of the Holy Spirit of God.
It's a terrible thing.
I think one of the most miserable creatures
on the face of the earth is a disobedient Christian,
a Christian not living in the center
of God's perfect will for them.
Well, I don't know about you,
but I wanna be in God's perfect will.
I don't ever wanna run from the will of God for my life.
Now, I'm gonna share something with you,
and I'm gonna get into the message here pretty quick.
We were talking about this a little bit earlier tonight,
talked to somebody in the auditorium
as we came in tonight.
My wife and I hate to travel.
We hate it.
And let me say this.
We wanna be home.
We're homebodies.
We like to be at home.
Let me say this.
To take it one step further, we hate RVs.
And we used an RV in our ministry for years.
We lived in an RV.
It was our only home, and that's what we lived in.
I just absolutely, positively do not like RVs.
I don't like the RV lifestyle.
And someone said to me,
well, why don't you just get out of it?
Why don't you just leave evangelism?
You don't need to be an evangelist.
Just get out of it.
Go pastor church somewhere.
I said, but this is what God has called me to.
You know, friends, let me tell you this.
I don't have to like traveling.
I don't have to like RVs.
Amen?
I just need to be obedient to what God has called me to do.
Like has nothing to do with it.
Do you hear what I just said?
There are gonna be some times in your life
when God is going to impress upon you to do something
in your Christian life that perhaps you would not like.
But like has nothing to do with it.
Obedience is what it's all about.
And being in the center of God's perfect will
is what it's all about.
I would much rather be in the center of God's perfect will
than be living outside the will of God
and be miserable the rest of my Christian life.
So now, you say, now, Brother Rashaun,
do you like what you're doing?
Well, I love what I'm doing.
God gave us a love for it.
God impressed upon my heart that in 1976
during the Bicentennial,
through the preaching of the word of God,
God gave me a burden for revival.
And that, listen, I'm gonna tell you,
the flame has never burned out.
It burns as brightly as it did
when God called me to the ministry of revival in 1976.
Now, I pastored for 14 years,
and I'm glad I had that experience
because it prepared me for revival work.
I personally believe the best evangelists
are men who have pastored
because they understand the heart of a pastor.
So when they come into a church
to lead a meeting like this one here,
they know what a pastor's burdens and concerns
and battles and struggles are,
so it allows him to come alongside of that pastor
and minister to him because he's been there,
done that, worn a T-shirt.
Amen?
He's been there.
And so he understands that.
So I'm saying that just as a way of personal testimony
that even though I don't like some things
about the ministry that God has put us in,
I love what I'm doing,
and I wanna be in the center of God's perfect will
whether I like it or not.
Does everybody understand what I'm saying?
It's not fun to live out of a suitcase.
It isn't fun to drive mile after mile
after mile after mile after mile,
especially at our age right now
because it gets more and more difficult as time goes on.
And it isn't a lot of fun to be itinerant,
but the bottom line is is it doesn't matter
whether it's fun or not.
It doesn't matter if we like it or not.
We're doing what God wants us to do
and praise the Lord, it's a joy.
It's a joy.
It's just a blessing to be in the center
of God's perfect will.
When I walk into a sanctuary like this one here,
I'm in my element.
Amen?
Now listen, I did a career in the Navy
and I worked flight decks and aircraft carriers
all my career, worked with explosives every day.
And when I stepped up on the flight deck
of an aircraft carrier, I was in my element.
That's where I belonged.
That's what I trained for.
That's what I wanted to be doing.
I didn't want to be anywhere else.
If I was gonna have to be at sea,
I wanted to be on the flight deck.
I wanted to be up there during flight operations.
I wanted to be around airplanes.
I wanted to smell jet exhaust.
You know?
But God called me away from that
and put me into ministry.
And I rejoice in that.
So when I walk in the door of a church like this,
I'm in my element.
And I just smile.
If you ever watch me,
when I come in the back door of a church house, I smile.
I'm happy.
I'm bright-eyed, bushy-tailed and ready to go.
And you know, as long as God lets me do it,
I'm glad that I'm able to do it.
I'm just sharing my testimony here.
If I were tomorrow morning, say,
well, you know what?
I think I just don't like this anymore.
Think I'll go do something else.
Well, at the age of 77, what am I gonna do?
Be a Walmart greeter?
Amen.
I don't even know if I could do that.
It's hard enough to stand up a couple hours
on a Sunday anymore.
But I mean, what would I do?
God's given me enough stamina and health
to be able to do this.
And not only that, but the burden is still there.
So why would I want to walk away from this?
You know, God put me in it
and God knows when to take me out of it.
Someone said, oh, well, you know what, preacher?
I don't see any retirement.
There's no doctrine in the Bible about preachers retiring.
I agree with that.
We don't retire, we just kind of re-fire
and just keep on going, I guess.
You know, here in Virginia, there was a guy,
I gotta move on,
because I'm gonna preach another message here.
There used to be a guy here in Virginia
that was an evangelist over here in Western Virginia.
He was booked for four years.
He had four years worth of meetings.
And the guy was 107 years old.
107, preaching revival meetings at 107.
And I'm thinking, man, I'm a young man
when you think about a guy 107 years old, amen?
And I never forget, Vance Habner said that,
if anybody knows who old Vance Habner was,
Vance Habner said that he went over to meet this guy
and fellowship with him.
And Vance at that time was in his early 80s
and he was getting ready to retire.
And he went over there and met with his dear brother
and he said, hey, he said,
I spent about three or four days with him
and came away from that thinking I was a young man
and went back to work.
107 years old.
This dear brother didn't have a tooth in his head.
Amen?
And sometimes he's wheelchair born.
Or they roll him up on the platform,
he'd sleep through the preliminaries,
come time to preach, stand him up,
the pulpit, he let it rip for 90 minutes.
And they said he did not have to have amplifiers
and he did not have to have amplification.
You could hear him two miles away.
Billy Sonny used to say that
if you couldn't be heard two miles away,
God probably didn't call you to preach.
Your pastor definitely got the call of God on him, amen?
Yeah, he could stand out here in the back porch
and they could hear him all over the neighborhood for sure.
He's got that booming voice, amen?
But I mean, it's being in the center of God's perfect will.
So I get asked, do you enjoy your ministry?
Immensely.
I just do.
I mean, just being here tonight's just a joy for me.
Now I'm gonna take a look at Jonah.
W.A. Criswell used to call him Jonah.
I'm gonna take a look at Jonah tonight
and I'm gonna share some thoughts with you about Jonah.
Now Jonah was a disobedient prophet.
By the way, he was a prophet.
This is one of the minor prophets here tonight,
the book of Jonah, he was a prophet.
By the way, his name, Jonah means dove.
He was the tribe of Zebulun.
Interesting man, this man, the tribe of Zebulun.
You can find out everything you need to know about him.
There's not much about him in the Bible.
In fact, I just marked my Bible today.
You can find something about him
back in 1 Kings chapter 14.
We see here, he restored the coast of Israel
from the entering into Hamath into the sea of the plain,
according to the word of the Lord of Israel,
which he spake by the hand of his servant Jonah.
He restored the coast of Israel
from the entering into Hamath into the sea of the plain,
according to the word of the Lord of Israel,
which he spake by the hand of his servant Jonah.
Jonah, the son of Amittai, the prophet which was of
Gathhefer." So we know that he was a prophet, the Word of
God declared him to be a prophet. And so Jonah, as we
take a look at the Bible tonight we realize Jonah was a
disobedient servant of God. He wasn't doing what God had
called him to do. He was being totally disobedient. He was
running from the Lord. And I submit unto you tonight he's
not the only one that's running from God. There are
many others that are running from God today and that's a
shame, ought not to be so. We ought not to run from Him,
we ought to run to Him. So look at chapter 1, look at
Jonah chapter 1, I'm going to start there. It says,
The Word of the Lord came unto Jonah the son of Amittai.
Now I want you to notice what it says, The Word of the
Lord came unto him. So God spoke to him, God called him
and God commissioned him. So basically He was sending him
as a missionary evangelist and we're going to see here in a
minute the city of Nineveh. Now it's interesting the city
of Nineveh was an interesting place. It was a huge city, it
was a large city, it took three days to walk across that
city. And I notice this that the city had walls that were
100 feet high. They were 50 feet thick. There were 1,500
towers around that city that were 60 foot apart. The wall
was so broad that three chariots could go around that
wall abreast. The adult population of Nineveh was
120,000. The city was 60 miles across. It was the Assyrian
capital from 5,000 B.C. to 612 B.C. and it was located in
the country today that we would know as Iraq on the
Tigris River and in actuality it's located where the city
of Mosul would be. So this was an ancient city. Now let me
say something about Nineveh. Nineveh was a wicked place. It
was an ungodly, wicked city. It was pantheistic. It was
evil in every way, shape and form. There was nothing good
about what was going on in Nineveh. They were at war all
the time. They were just an ungodly people. They were
bloodthirsty people. They were just a vile group of people.
Now the Lord came unto Jonah the son of Amittai saying,
Arise and go to Nineveh that great city. Now notice what he
says and cry against it. So I'll tell you what I want you
to do, Jonah. I want you to go into the city and I want you
to preach their sin. I want you to go into that city and
I want you to tell them they better get right with me. And
I want you to cry against it for their wickedness has come
up before me. But look what Jonah did. But Jonah rose up to
flee unto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord, from the
presence of the Lord. And he went down to Joppa and he
found the ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the
fair grub and he went down into it to go with them unto
Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. So Jonah said, No,
I'm not going. He said, I don't care. Listen, I don't
care if you call me. I don't care if you commission me. I
don't care if you told me to go. I'm going to disobey. I'm
not going. And you know why he wouldn't go? Because he hated
the Ninevites. But God loved them. For God so loved the
world that He gave His only begotten Son that whosoever
believeth in Him should not perish but have everlasting
life. But God commended His love toward us. And while we
were yet sinners Christ died for us, amen. Praise the Lord
for that. He hated the Ninevites but God loved them.
And God wanted to demonstrate and extend mercy to them. They
might have an opportunity to turn from their sin, repent
and be saved. And Jonah said, I'm not going. Now don't you
think that God already knew it was in Jonah's heart? Don't
you think that God already knew that Jonah was already
disobedient? Let me tell you this, Jonah was disobedient
before God ever called him to go to Nineveh. His heart was
not right with God before God called him to go to Nineveh.
So you would ask yourself the question, why would God call
someone like that? Because He, because God wanted to use
Him. God wanted to use Jonah in spite of Himself. Now
sometimes, He's done that in your life and my life. God
sometimes uses us in spite of ourselves. And God didn't say
no ifs, ands, or buts. He said, Jonah I want you to go to
Nineveh and I want you to cry against their sin. That's what
He commanded to do. Now what did Jonah do? I want you to
get this because this is an important point. He fled from
the presence of the Lord. He got out of God's presence. He
didn't even want to be in the presence of the Lord. He fled
the presence of the Lord. He ran as hard and as fast as he
could away from God and away from God's will for his life.
And I would spit unto you tonight that that's not an
uncommon thing amongst God's people sometimes. And it's
really to me discouraging as I watch people that God wants to
use that they refuse to be used to the Lord because they have
their own agenda. Certainly Jonah had his own agenda. He
just said to the Lord, I'm not going. What if God were to
call you to the mission field tonight? You know? Sometimes we
try to make these deals with God. You can't make a deal with
God. If God calls you to go do something you've just got to go
do it. You know? And so now Jonah you would have thought
that this man being a prophet, a man of God, a preacher of the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, you would think this man would be
excited about the fact that God is sending me a people to
preach the Word of God to them and there is an opportunity for
them to be saved. And what a joy it would be to see revival
break out amongst those people. Man, I'm excited about going
down there. Not him. Now, God could have set him aside and
called somebody else. God has a replacement program. If you
won't go and you won't do then God has somebody else that He
can send and then you'll lose the blessing. You'll not get
the blessing. You can apply this in so many different ways in
your life, in so many different things in your life, so many
different facets of your life. So Jonah said, no I'm not
going. I mean can you imagine him telling, I mean who does he
think he is to tell God no? You know? But he did. He said,
nope I'm not going. And he fled from the presence of the Lord.
He got out of His presence. So verse 3, But Jonah rose up to
flee, to run unto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. And
he went down to Joppa, and he found a ship going to Tarshish,
so he paid the fare thereof, and he went down into it to go
with him into Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. That's the
second time I've said it. But the Lord sent out a great wind
into the sea. And there was a mighty tempest in the sea, so
that the ship was like to be broken. Then the mariners, and
these were ungodly pagan men, then the mariners were afraid.
Well I guess so. I'll tell you what you've not lived till you
seen a full-blown storm at sea. I've been in 40 foot seas, and
even 50 foot seas, and I can tell you it's a pretty
frightening thing. Then the mariners were afraid, and cried
every man unto his God, and cast forth the wares that were in
the ship unto the sea, and delighted of them. But Jonah
was gone down into the sides of the ship, and lay and was fast
asleep. So the shipmaster came to him, and said unto him,
What meanest thou, O sleeper? Now there in the midst of the
storm this guy is sleeping. That's how indifferent and
apathetic he was. By the way this storm is all because of
him. Arise, call upon thy God. It's interesting to me that
these pagan men who were praying to their gods
inevitably, that these ungodly men recognized His God, big G
God, amen. And so be that God will think upon us, and we
perish not. And they said, Everyone to his fellow come,
let us cast lots, that we may know for whose cause this evil
is upon us. So they cast lots, and a lot fell upon Jonah. Then
said they unto him, Tell us, we pray thee, for whose cause
this evil is upon us. Now look at this, they said, What is
thine occupation? Who are you? Where did you come from? And
what are you all about? And by the way, what is thine
occupation? And whence comest thou? What is thy country, and
of what people art thou? Verse 9, And he said unto them, I
am an Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, which
hath made the sea and the dry land. Well, you know what,
that's a flat out lie. That's exactly what that is, that's a
flat out lie. He didn't fear God, not one whit. I mean he
ran from God, he fled from the presence of God, he disobeyed
God, he said no to God. And so I'm just going to do what I
want to do. I'm just going to run my own agenda. And he's
telling these people, listen, I'm a Hebrew, I'm a Baptist
preacher. God has sent me to go preach to these people down
here, and I'm not going, don't want to go, don't want nothing
to do with that. And he says, oh, by the way, and I fear
God. No, he didn't, or he wouldn't have done what he did.
Verse 10, Then were the men exceedingly afraid, and said
unto him, Now look at this, this is really to me an amazing
thing. Why hast thou done this? Why have you done this? Why
have you done this thing that you're doing? Because they
obviously began to put things together and connecting the
dots, and they were beginning to come up with, you know what,
two and two does equal four. They figured something wasn't
right about this whole thing, and they realized everything
that was going on that they were experiencing right here was
because of him. Now, let me say this, if you don't get
anything else out of the message get this, your
disobedience, my disobedience, your sin, and my sin doesn't
just affect you individually, or me individually, it affects
many others. It affects many others. Even if you come into
this church building with sin in your heart and your life,
and you're living in a sinful situation, you're actually
polluting this church, because your sin is going to affect
others. It will affect your home, your family, your
or marriage or children, it affects others as well.
And listen, what his sin and his disobedience
and his running from God and fleeing from his presence
and being out of the will of the Lord
was affecting these other men.
And these men had nothing to do with it.
They had nothing to do with it at all.
But they're being affected by it.
And so they make this statement,
they say, why have you done this?
Why hast thou done this?
For the men knew that he fled
from the presence of the Lord because he told them.
All right, let's stop and think about that for a minute.
The men knew he was fleeing from the presence of the Lord.
You know what that affects?
It affects your testimony.
Jonah's testimony was being deleteriously affected
by these men recognizing that he was running from God.
Why?
They figured that out.
There's no question in their minds what he's doing.
And he lied when he said, well, I fear God.
There's no question, no, no.
Listen, if he feared God, he wouldn't have disobeyed God
to begin with and he would have done
what God had called him to do.
But he's fleeing from the presence of the Lord.
And these men said, listen, why have you done this?
Why are you fleeing from your God?
Why are you not doing?
And so it's affecting them.
And so his testimony is completely and totally
and absolutely affected by what he's done.
Obviously, these men can see this.
So there's a lot of dynamic involved
in what's happening here.
He's disobedient to God.
He's disobedient to his call and his commission.
He's out of the will of God.
He's running from God.
He's fleeing from the presence of God.
He said no to God.
And he's just basically acting out his own agenda.
He's involved in exercising his own self-will.
That can only end in tragedy and disaster.
It always does.
And like I said, you take people with you
when you do these kinds of things.
So these men are being affected by this.
These are men that really had no part in this at all.
These are, if you want to say they're innocent,
these are innocent men.
Their collateral damage is what they are.
So in verse 12 or verse 11,
he had told them this, he said, I'm running from God.
You mentioned that, let me read that again.
Verse 10, then were the men exceedingly afraid
and said unto him, why hast thou done this?
For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord
because he told them.
He told them.
He said, hey, you know what?
He said, this whole thing is going on right here.
It's, I'm running from God.
At least he admitted that, I'm running from God.
Verse 11, they said, then they said unto him,
what shall we do unto thee?
That the sea may come unto us, be calm unto us.
For the sea water was tempestuous.
And he said unto them, take me up
and cast me forth into the sea,
so shall the sea be calm unto you.
Now look, for I know that for my sake,
this great tempest is upon you.
Nevertheless, the men rode hard to bring it to land,
but they could not for the sea water
was tempestuous against them.
So they were afraid to throw him over the side
because they're now becoming afraid of his God.
Verse 14, wherefore they cried unto the Lord
and said, we beseech thee, O Lord, we beseech thee,
let us not perish for this man's life
and lay not upon us innocent blood
for thou, O Lord, hast done as it please thee.
Now, can you imagine that?
Now they're not praying to these false gods of theirs,
now they're praying to God of heaven, to Jonah's God.
So they took up Jonah and cast him forth into the sea
and the sea ceased from a raging.
Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly
and offered a sacrifice unto the Lord and made vows.
Now I don't know about you,
but I see something wonderful in verse 16.
They offered sacrifice unto the Lord.
Well, listen, when I see they did that,
it causes me to be reminded of the fact
that there's only one sacrifice that's saved from sin
and that's the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ
and the cross of Calvary.
So they made sacrifice to the Lord and made vows.
You know what I think?
I think these men got saved right here.
I think they put their faith and trust in Jonah's God
in spite of him.
And to me, that's an amazing thing.
And so they made vows.
Verse 17.
Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.
And of course, the New Testament says whale.
And the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.
And Jonah was in the belly of the fish
three days and three nights.
We know that's a messianic statement.
Matthew 12, 40 says this.
As Jonah was in the belly of the fish or the whale
three days and three nights,
so is the son of man the heart of the earth.
We know that's a messianic statement in scripture there,
but nonetheless, there's something practically seen to this.
He's in the belly of this fish for three days
and three nights.
Now, you know, you stop and think about that
and you say, well, that's just absolutely
a biological impossibility for anybody to survive
in the belly of a fish or a whale.
But the hand of God was upon him in spite of himself.
I mean, that's an interesting thing
that he was able to survive three days and three nights
in the belly of this fish.
First chapter two, verse one.
Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God
out of the fish's belly.
And he said, I cried by reason of mine affliction
unto the Lord and he heard me out of the belly of hell,
Sheol, and of course that can reference the grave as well,
cried I and thou heardest my voice.
For thou hast cast me into the deep
and the midst of the seas
and the floods come past me about
and all the billows and thy waves passed over me.
Then I said, I'm cast out of thy sight
yet I will look again toward the holy temple.
Verse five says, the waters can pass me about
even to the soul.
The depth closed me round about,
the weeds were wrapped about my head.
I went down to the bottoms of the mountains,
the earth with her bars was about me forever
yet hast thou brought up my life from corruption,
O Lord my God.
When my soul fainted within me,
I remembered the Lord and my prayer
came in unto thee into thy holy temple.
They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy
but I will sacrifice unto thee
with the voice of thanksgiving,
I will pay that thy vowed salvations of the Lord.
And the Lord spake unto the fish
and it vomited out Jonah upon the dry land.
Huh?
Think about that.
What do you think he'd look like?
I mean, think about the fact
that he'd been in the belly of this fish for three days.
What do you think he'd look like?
He probably looked like he was probably a mess, amen?
God got him where he wanted him to be
but he got him there the hard way.
He didn't have to go the hard way,
he could have gone God's way.
Could have gone God's way.
Chapter three, I see this, stick with me,
I'm getting pretty close to the end here
but it says, and the word of the Lord came unto Jonah
the second time saying,
Arise and go to Nineveh, that great city
and preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee.
So Jonah rose and went into Nineveh
according to the word of the Lord.
Now, I'll tell you what,
he went in there reluctantly, I'm sure.
Because his attitude towards Nineveh had not changed.
Now, Nineveh was an exceeding great city
of three days journey.
He took that long walk across that city
and Jonah began to enter that city a day's journey
and he cried.
That word in the Hebrew means to loudly proclaim.
And he cried and he said,
yet 40 days and Nineveh shall be overthrown.
Friends, that's a eight word message.
That's an eight word sermon.
That's it.
He delivered the message God wanted him to deliver.
That was it.
Wouldn't it have been a whole lot better
if Jonah had just gone ahead and done what God told him
to go deliver the eight word message
and get it over with and get it done,
do what God called him to do
and then he could have just rejoiced
and seen what the Lord was gonna do.
The great, I'm telling you,
the great moving the spirit of God that took place here,
we'll see in a minute.
Wouldn't it have been a whole lot better
if he just stayed in the will of God,
not fled from the presence of God,
just going and done what God told him to do?
Sometimes God will call us to do things
we may not in the human sense want to do.
Sometimes God will impress upon our hearts
some things that perhaps are difficult to do.
Sometimes the Lord will tell us to do things
that we would not ordinarily do,
that are outside of the boundaries
of what we would want to do.
Sometimes God will do that.
But he should have just gone ahead and done it.
He wouldn't have had to get there the way he got there.
Can you imagine what the Ninevites thought of him
when he walked into the city?
What is up with this guy?
I mean, he obviously must not have looked very good.
So he cried, he cried out against this city,
yet 40 days and Nineveh shall be overthrown.
So the people of Nineveh believed God.
They believed him and they proclaimed it fast.
They put on sackcloth from the greatest of them
even to the least of them.
For the word came unto the king of Nineveh
and he rose from his throne and he laid his robe from him
and he covered him with sackcloth and sat in ashes
and he caused it to be proclaimed
and published through Nineveh
by the decree of the king and his nobles saying,
let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock taste anything.
Let them not feed nor drink water,
but let man and beast be covered with sackcloth
and cry mightily unto God.
Yea, let them turn, everyone from his evil way
and from the violence that is in their hands.
Who can tell if God will turn and repent
and turn away from his fierce anger
that we perish not?
And God saw their works.
He saw their obedience.
He saw they've been changed
and they turned from their evil way
and God repented of the evil that he had said
that he would do unto them and he did it not.
Of course, we know that in.
Zephaniah foretold the destruction of Zephaniah 2,
13 later on down the road. It was rather an interesting
situation upon which God brought that destruction. But
nonetheless here they repented. They repented. God
took His unwilling servant and got him there in spite of
Himself and got him there through some very difficult
circumstances and put him in a position where he had to
deliver the message that God had called him and
commissioned him to do and impressed upon him. And he
preached an eight word message and these people
repented of their sin and revival broke out of the
city. See, God loved them and God wanted to give them an
opportunity to repent. And it's amazing to me that for
whatever reason Jonah just didn't get it. He didn't have
a merciful spirit. He was an extremely angry man. In fact,
let's look at one more thing here before we start to wrap
this up. But if you go into the next chapter, and I don't
have time to finish it all, but if you look in the next
chapter, chapter 4 and verse 1, look at this. But after
this revival breaks out these people get right with God
and repent of their sin. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly
and he was very angry. He didn't want them to repent.
And he prayed unto the Lord and he said, I pray thee O
Lord was not this my saying when I was yet of my country
therefore I fled before in a tarshish. For I knew, look at
this, for I knew that thou art a gracious God, a merciful,
slow to anger, and a great kindness, and repentancy of
the evil. Therefore now O Lord take I beseech thee my life
from me for it is better for me to die than to live. What
kind of attitude is this? He said, I knew you were a
merciful God. I knew you were a gracious God. I knew that I
went in there and preached this message, they'd get right.
He said, I knew that, but he said, I'm angry. I didn't want
them to repent. Wow. Well, I'll tell you what, that's some
kind of a horrible attitude. You know? Well, he should have
been rejoicing. He should have been having a hallelujah fit.
He should have been praising the Lord up and down the
streets of Nineveh. He should have been excited about that.
But instead he's angry. He's angry. Well, I guess he was
still out of the will of God, then wasn't he? By the way,
you don't see anything said about Jonah after this except
for that one verse of Scripture which deals with the
three days and three nights and the belly of the fish
speaking messianically of the three days and three nights of
Jesus being in the heart of the earth and then gloriously
bodily resurrected from the dead, amen. By the way, no
resurrection, no gospel. I mean, so really Jonah really
kind of got set aside, didn't he? That's what I think. We
don't hear anything from him or about him again. Whereas the
other prophets you hear about them again and you see the
kind of life and ministry they had. I think of Isaiah,
Jeremiah, Ezekiel. I think of some of these major prophets,
Daniel. You look at those books and you see these men were
mighty used of God and you see a totally different spirit.
But of Jonah you don't see him really ever mentioned again. So
he did not many mighty works, although God used him in a
mighty way here. So God has a way of getting His servants,
even when they are disobedient and out of His will, He still
has a way of getting them where He wants them to be and uses
them in spite of themselves. Why do people say no to the
call of God in their life? How many are just disobedient in
the basic stuff? I remember one time when I was pastoring I
said, we had a family in our church that for whatever reason
they just decided they weren't going to come to church on
Sunday. We would have used it as a family day and go ride
roller coasters. I said, what are you teaching your kids?
Pass up the church. Pass up the house of God. Not be faithful
to church. What is going on with your thinking here? And I
was broken hearted over this because these were people that
had been faithful at one time. I said, listen, I said, did you
not know that church attendance is really Christianity 101?
He had every excuse in the book. So I said to him, I said,
well quite frankly my brother you really are just out of the
will of God here. Because if you were in the will of God and
you were walking in God's will then you'd be in church and
you'd have your family here every time the doors are open.
I can't understand why you wouldn't want to do that. And I
said, every excuse in the book. Remember the other day I
mentioned, yesterday I mentioned tithing? Amen. That's
Christianity 101. God says that the tenth part is His. And by
the way, someone said, well it's under the law. No, it's
not. It was given before the law was given. Remember in
Melchizedek? And then Jesus upholds the tithe in the New
Testament. I said, that's Christianity 101. I said, if
you're not tithing and you're not doing what God has called
you to do when it comes to giving your tithes and
offerings at a local New Testament church you're out of
the will of God. Some people don't like that. Oh, you bet
these preachers always preach no money. I said, no sir, no
ma'am. Oh, and by the way, let me say this as an aside,
there's more scriptural money in the Bible than anything
else, 2,150 verses because God knows we can't handle it. So,
He has to teach us how to handle money, or money will
handle us. So, Jonah is out of God's will. And Jonah was an
angry man. And Jonah was a bitter man. He didn't have
mercy in his heart for these Ninevites. And he didn't want
to go and preach the Word of God to them. And when God
finally got them there they repented, got right with God.
God, that which He was planning to do with Ninevites, they
hadn't repented. He repented of that. It says that He turned
away from that and spared the city at least for the time
being. And you should have thought that He would have
rejoiced and been happy in the Lord. And again He was angry.
But the key is that from the very beginning He was out of
God's will and running from the Lord, running from the
presence of God. And we can apply that in so many
different ways. People are running from the presence of
God all the time, you know. God calls them to preach, they
won't do it. God calls them to mission field, they won't do
it. God calls them to do some area of service in the Church,
they won't do it. God impressed upon their heart that they
should use their abilities and their talents to sing in a
choir, they won't do it. God wants them to teach a Sunday
school class, they won't do it. I mean you can go right on
down the list, they won't do it. God wants them to go out
soul winning, they won't do it. God wants them to be
involved in this ministry, that ministry, they won't do
it. Youth ministry, you need somebody to work with the
youth, they won't do it. Why? Because they have their own
agenda just like He did. And it's because they are out of
the will of God. If God calls you to do something, you do
it. Some things you don't even have to be called of God to
do. The Word of God gives ample instruction about things that
we ought to be doing. And so you do that in obedience to God
to His Word. And if you're not doing what God has called you
to do and shown you to do and instructed you to do in His
Word, then you're out of God's will. Not a happy way to live
your life. Not a happy way to live your life. Jonah is just
an extreme example. Yet in all the years that I've been
preaching the Word of God I've seen a lot of it, seen a lot
of it, you know. And it's sad. It's not a good way to live.
And God wants us to be in the center of His perfect will, not
running from His presence but running into His presence.
Isaiah chapter 6 gives a perfect example of that. Isaiah
got into the presence of God, got into God's presence and
saw Him high and lifted up. Saw the angels of God worshipping
Him and praising Him and honoring Him. And he came to
the conclusion, woe is me for I'm undone. I'm a man of
unclean lips and I live in the midst of a people of unclean
lips. And somewhere along the line in the process of that he
said this, when he got right with God and everything in his
life was back in order the way it should have been and God
said, whom shall we send? Who will go for us? That's a triune
Godhead speaking there. Who shall go for us? He said, here
my Lord send me. He made Himself available and He
definitely was not running from the Lord. He was running to
Him. God, whatever you want me to do I'm willing to do it.
Don't want to run from You, don't want to be out of Your
will, don't want to run from Your presence. I don't want to
be a Jonah. Quick story then I'm going to pray. My pastor,
one of the dearest men I've ever known in my life, never
known a more precious man than Pastor Willie Dell. God called
him to pastor Mira Mesa Bible Baptist Church. God called him
to preach, called him to pastor. He was teaching Sunday
school, he was working with the teens, he was doing all kinds
of things in the church in National City in San Diego
area. But he would not heed God's call upon his life to do
what he knew the Lord was impressing upon his heart. He
wouldn't surrender to it. He skirted the issue, made
excuses. And finally Mrs. Dell said to him, Brother Willie
you're a Jonah, you're a Jonah. That's a good wife that would
do something like that for her husband, amen, you're a Jonah.
Now in the midst of all this he had started, he came down and
started working with our church because at that time it was a
mission work out of Bible Baptist Church in National City,
it used to be Filipino and American Bible Baptist Church.
And he came down there and started working with the church
and pastoring it.
the mission work. And I was preaching a fellowship meeting. Our dear sister here was in this
church, Lighthouse Baptist Church Laverne. She was there recently, a Los Angeles area.
Great church. And I was preaching a fellowship meeting there, and I was the closing preacher.
And I had no idea. I didn't even know who Willie Dell was. And we had a big crowd that
day. We had a lot of Bible college students. We had some high school kids there. We had
preachers there, missionaries, evangelists there. And I preached the message that God
had impressed upon my heart in the last couple of minutes before I preached. The message
was entitled, Don't Quit. Don't Quit. And I did not know that Pastor Willie was there
that day with Pastor Larry Obero. And when I gave the invitation at the end of that message,
men began to come to the altar. He came to the altar weeping. And his testimony is, that
day I already had written my letter of resignation, and I was going to leave that ministry until
Brother Meshon preached, Don't Quit. I had no idea who he was, and I had no idea that
just a few years later he would be my pastor. I'm glad I preached that message, Don't Quit.
Well, Jonah quit before he even got started, because he was disobedient. Out of the will
of God and out of God's presence. You get in the presence of God, when God impresses
will upon your heart, you'll say, Yes, Lord, yes. Here am I. Send me whatever you'd have
me do, Lord. I want to do it. I want to be obedient to you. I don't want to be disobedient
in any way, shape, or form. Let us not be a Jonah. Amen. Let's all stand. Would you
stand with me, please? With our heads bowed and eyes closed. Father, we thank you, Lord,
tonight for the privilege we've had to be here in your house. Lord, just a very simple
message, nothing profound here. But God, we pray that as our sister comes to play the
instrument, that you'd speak to the hearts of your people, accomplish whatever it is
you'd want accomplished. Lord, help us to be mindful tonight that it's a terrible thing
to be out of your will. Lord, we ought to, every one of us tonight, have that desire
to be in your presence. And when you impress things upon our hearts, there should be no
resistance there. We should just have a desire to surrender ourselves to your will, whatever
it may be. God, help us not to be a Jonah and run for your purpose in our lives, we
pray. So as we have the invitation, God, move as you will. We'll thank you for it in Jesus'
name. Would you now, with your heads bowed and eyes closed as the instrument plays, would
you now step out and come? The altar's open tonight. If God spoke in your heart about
anything in the message, the altar's open. Would you come? How about you, if you're out
of the will of God tonight, get back into his will again. Surrender yourself to him.
Let him have his way with you. Lord, I want to be in the center of your perfect will.
I don't want to be a Jonah. I don't want to run from whatever it is you have for me in
my life. Perhaps you're here tonight, you're not saved. You need to put your faith and
trust in Christ. Would you come tonight and let us take the Bible and show you from the
Word of God how you can be saved, biblically, through repentance and faith. But Christian,
the message tonight's for us. I never want to be out of God's will. I want to be in the
center of his perfect will. That's the place of joy. That's the place of happiness. That's
the place of blessing. That's the place of abundance. And when God just used me, you
should want the same thing. We ought to be used to the Lord. We especially live in these
last days. We haven't much time yet to serve him. The night cometh when no man can work.
We need to be obedient to God's call upon our lives. Let the Holy Spirit of God lead,
God direct us. Lord, I'm available to you for whatever you want in my life, whatever
you would have me do. I don't want to run from you or from your presence.